I am Bohdan Khmelnytsky, born in 1595 in
Chigirin, Ukraine. I am the leader of the
Zaporozhian Cossacks who organized a rebellion
against Polish rule in Ukraine that ultimately
led to the Polish losing control over the
Ukrainian lands east of the Dnieper River.
Although I had been educated in Poland and had
served with Polish military forces against the
Turks, I, quarreled with the Polish governor
of Czyhryn and was forced to flee to a nearby
Cossack’s fortress with other runaway serfs, and
traders who had settled along the Dnieper River.
I then organized a rebellion among the
Zaporozhian Cossacks and with the support of
the Crimean Tatars, marched against the Poles
in April 1648. My victorious advance granted
me additional support from the dissatisfied
peasants, townspeople, and clergy of Ukraine,
who joined my side in a mass uprising that enabled
us to seize more territories from Poland in 1648.
Following numerous victories against
the Polish king, John Casimir,
we made peace with Poland, concluding the
Compact of Zborów; granting us a virtually
independent Cossack principality in Ukraine.
The peace treaty satisfied neither the Polish
gentry nor the Cossack followers, many of
whom remained subject to Polish landlords;
therefore, I renewed the war which
led to a less advantageous treaty.
I conducted secret negotiations with Sweden,
which was also at war with Poland. I was about
to conclude a treaty with the Swedes, placing the
Cossacks under Swedish rule when I died in 1657.
I sought autonomy for my Cossack followers but
succeeded only in devastating their formerly
flourishing Dnieper lands and in subjecting them
to the rule of Moscow, which gained control of
Ukraine east of the Dnieper and gradually
curtailed our liberties. I had a significant
influence on the history of Ukraine not only
shaping the future of the nation but affecting the
balance of power in Europe, as the weakening of
Poland-Lithuania was exploited by Austria, Saxony,
Prussia, and Russia. My actions were viewed
differently by different contemporaries but
ultimately, I spent my life forging a nation
that I hope is still flourishing to this day.